Ahead of U.S. Ambassador arrival, Trump okays 500% tariff Bill on Russian oil; withdraws from India-led ISA
U.S. Ambassador-designate Sergio Gor, who takes charge on January 12, 2026 has said ending India’s Russian oil imports is a “top priority”.


India faced double-pressure over energy on Thursday (January 8, 2026) from U.S. President Donald Trump’s decisions to back a Bill mandating up to “500% tariffs” on countries buying Russian oil, and to withdraw the U.S. from the India-led International Solar Alliance (ISA) amongst dozens of other international organisations.

The announcements came just ahead of the arrival of U.S. Ambassador-designate Sergio Gor to Delhi this weekend, who said in September that ensuring India ends its import of Russian oil is a “top priority”. Mr. Gor, who was confirmed and sworn in to the position months ago will begin his tenure in Delhi as Ambassador to Delhi and “Special envoy to South and Central Asia” on January 12, 2026, and is expected to make a public address.

Meanwhile in Paris, Polish Foreign Minister Radoslow Sikorski expressed “satisfaction” that India has reduced its oil imports from Russia, during a joint press appearance with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Foreign Ministers of France and Germany.

“Relations between the European Union and strategic partners such as India are very important to us and I express my satisfaction regarding the reduction of import of Russian oil to India because this is financing the war machine of [Russian President] Putin,” Mr. Sikorski in remarks Mr. Jaishankar, who spoke directly after him, did not contradict.

In a statement, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham, a close associate of Mr. Trump, said the U.S. President on Wednesday (January 7, 2026) has “greenlit” the Russia Sanctions Bill, which could be voted in Congress “as early as next week”.

 “This Bill would give President Trump tremendous leverage against countries such as China, India and Brazil to incentivise them to stop buying the cheap Russian oil that provides the financing for Putin’s bloodbath against Ukraine.”

 The Russia Sanctions Act, a bipartisan Bill introduced in the Senate in April has thus far got 84 co-sponsors (out of a total of 100 Senate members), and 151 co-sponsors in the U.S. House of Representatives, suggesting it will be passed smoothly once brought to a vote.

Earlier this week Mr. Trump, who had jointly addressed the press along with Mr. Graham, called it a “great legislation” that was coming, as Mr. Graham said the Bill would give the U.S. President discretion to choose the figure of the tariffs over and above 25% penalty tariffs already imposed on India. 

In September, during his Senate Foreign Relations Committee confirmation hearings, Mr. Gor said Mr. Trump had been “crystal clear” on the issue of India’s oil purchases.